---
title: 'Use Docker with RStudio'
date: 2020-11-16
permalink: /posts/2020/11/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Docker
  - R
  - Data Analysis
---

# Why Docker?
Recently, I encountered a problem with an R package I wanted to install. However, this package requires a higher version of R than the one currently installed on my system. Due to system limitations, I cannot upgrade R. Therefore, I decided to use Docker, which resolves many of these issues for me.

# Step-by-Step Installation
Assuming you have Docker installed, it is straightforward to get the RStudio image from Rocker using Docker:
  * Open your terminal.
  * In the command line, type:
      * `docker pull rocker/rstudio` (add `sudo` if you encounter a permission denied error)
      * `docker images` (you should see the repository for rocker/rstudio)

# Using RStudio with Docker
  * Now that you have the rocker/rstudio image in Docker, you need to create a container using the following command:
    * `docker run -d -p 8787:8787 -e USER=<username> -e PASSWORD=<password> rocker/rstudio`
  * You can check the Docker containers using:
    * `docker container list`
  * If you see the container for the rocker/rstudio image, it means you have successfully created the container. (Note: remember the name of your container, as it is important.)
  * Open your browser and visit "localhost:8787"; you should see the RStudio server running. Firefox is recommended, as I encountered issues with Google Chrome.
  * You can use R as usual. To stop the running container, use:
    * `docker stop <container_name>`
  * If you want to use your container in the future, simply remember its name. To start your container again, use:
    * `docker start <container_name>` 

<!---

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------

--->